# Libraries, Gems and Bundler

## Library
In computer programming, a _library_ is a collection of routines that can be called by separate programs but that exist independently of those programs. For example, you could create a library to load and process a data file, and then use the routines in that library from any number of other programs.

### Standard Library
Ruby comes with many standard libraries. They provide Ruby with a wide selection of functionality “out of the box,” from web serving and networking tools through to encryption, benchmarking, and testing routines. We often call "standard libraries" when we want to refer to the collection rather than one library in particular — a “library of libraries”

## Ruby Gems
RubyGems is a packaging system for Ruby programs and libraries. It enables developers to package their Ruby libraries in a form that’s easy for users to maintain and install. RubyGems makes it easy to manage different versions of the same libraries on your machine, and gives you the ability to install them with a single line at the command prompt.
Each individually packaged Ruby library (or application) is known simply as a gem or RubyGem. Gems have names, version numbers, and descriptions. You can manage your computer’s local installations of gems using the gem command, available from the command line. RubyGems comes standard with Ruby.

## Bundler
[Bundler](http://bundler.io/) is a tool that was developed to help you manage the dependencies of a project (essentially, the libraries upon which your project depends) in a more structured way. It comes by default on some Ruby installs, but you can always ensure it's installed with gem install bundler.

We can easy build ruby project skeleton by calling:
```
bundle gem GEM_NAME
```

This command creates a scaffold directory for our new gem and, if we have Git installed, initializes a Git repository in this directory so we can start committing right away. If this is your first time running the bundle gem command, you will be asked whether you want to include a the `CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md` and `LICENSE.txt` files with your project. Files generated which we should know are:
* `Gemfile`: Used to manage gem dependencies for our library’s development. This file contains a gemspec line meaning that Bundler will include dependencies specified in `project_name.gemspec` too.
* `Gemfile.lock`: File generated by Bundler using information from `Gemfile`. We are not allowed to make any changes in that file. Only `bundle` command can make changes.
* `README.md`: contains information about other files in a directory or archive of computer software. A form of documentation, it is usually a simple plain text using [markdown](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Markdown) syntax.
* `Rakefile`: Rake is a software task management and build automation tool. It allows the user to specify tasks and describe dependencies as well as to group tasks in a namespace. We can create task using ruby language.
* `.rspec` file and `/spec` folder comes from [RSpec](https://relishapp.com/rspec/rspec-expectations/docs). The ruby testing framework.
* `/lib`: This folder should contain all the code (classes, etc.) for our gem.
